+++
title = 'Personal Thought: On Being Cool'
date = 2026-05-24T00:14:43-04:00
draft = false
+++

Being cool is something that many people aspire to be. I’m not totally there myself yet, but working on it. I appreciate it a lot when I meet or see cool people doing what they do. I’ve found that the people I consider super cool all have a unique and slightly unconventional manner in how they do things. They do things differently, in their own way. It’s funny how we’re often the most cool when we're just doing things without thinking anyone else is observing. The moment we notice there are people watching and observing, we abruptly cut it off and act “normal” again. Children don’t do this but as adults, we’re hyper aware when people are observing us or silently judging us. This takes us out of our flow and we start performing and doing things with an added layer that begins with the question: “What will people think?” I say stop worrying about what people think and just do what you do. Give yourself permission to do what you want. It doesn't really matter too much what people think, as long as you are doing something good with the intent to inspire or lead people to higher ideals. *Perhaps being cool is really just about living freely and expressing one’s self, with no hesitations or reservations (i.e. cool equals keeping it real)*. Let me share some practical tips to be cool that have worked for me over the years.

**Don’t always ask for permission, rather flip it and try asking for forgiveness instead**: I used to ask for permission for everything, and we get it drilled into our heads that it’s important to ask for permission for everything. It gets reinforced at school, home, and work; over the course of time, we learn that to do anything we need to ask for permission. In certain situations, yes you need to ask for permission first. But often we use permission as an excuse to not even start. We need to unlearn always asking for permission and learn to just do what we do. If there’s something that you want to do, why not just do it? If there's something that you want to make, why not just drop it? Be cognizant of others, but just do stuff without worrying and know that it’s better to make a mistake and ask for forgiveness than it is to approach things timidly. Fortune favors the bold and I think that for me, I try to just do stuff and let things happen, good or bad. We learn the most from trying and making mistakes, yet society is often very punishing and unforgiving towards mistakes. I say keep making mistakes because how can someone learn and improve without mistakes that teach and enhance you? Without experiencing uncomfortable situations and working through them, how can people reach their full potential? They can’t and that’s what keeps people stunted and boxed in.

**A person must have conviction in who they are and believe, “*I am a cool person and I do cool things*”**: I personally think that 70% of being cool is telling yourself that, “*I am a cool person and I do cool things*.” A person’s mind must truly believe in his or her uniqueness and talents in order for “coolness” to be present, present in both actions and personality. If we don’t have belief, there is no other way. A fantastic quote by the American author **Wallace Wattles** is: “*Action is the second form of thought, and personality is the materialization of thought*.” How can someone be perceived as cool by others if they don’t even think they are cool themselves? It’s never going to happen. I understand that as part of society, there are certain social norms we have to adhere to. I honor them and believe it’s important to show decorum and respect at all times towards everyone. However, we are often told to “*fit in*.” Why? Why not be yourself and the person God created you to be? Why not be comfortable being yourself and do what you do? A person is best at being themselves first and foremost, no? It’s really important to be someone who has unique convictions, tastes, and styles, which comes from someone who’s unapologetically themselves and unafraid of judgement. I think such people are extremely rare today because we desperately seek validation from others, but we don’t ask for validation from ourselves! The bottom line is we can’t be cool unless we trust who we are as people completely and fully.

**There needs to be a element of delusion paired with realism in order to be cool**: The modus operandi we are often told is to “*be realistic*.” I say there needs to be an amendment to that and we need to flip it: *be delusional first, and then realistic second*. Why? Because delusion goes hand-in-hand with a self-belief and confidence that cannot be extinguished. It was unrealistic to think that we could have light during the night, but Thomas Edison didn’t believe that and invented the light bulb. It was unrealistic to think that we could sit in metal tin cans and fly around the world, but the Wright Brothers didn’t believe that and invented the airplane. It was unrealistic to think that we could go to the Moon, but the people at NASA didn’t believe that and put people on the Moon. At the same time, being delusional must be paired with being practical and realistic, because delusions can easily steer into wishful thinking if left unchecked. This is a great paradox: we often become cool when we’re both delusional and realistic. The delusions power us to do and to create cool stuff; the realism powers us to know when to stop if we're doing something that’s not cool and not adding real value. It’s funny how we are often powered by contradictions and we go into the danger zone if we steer too far one way or the other. When it comes to being cool: someone who’s overly delusional is plain crazy, while someone who’s overly realistic has no creativity or sense of wonder.

*More practical tips coming (this is a work in progress)…*

I say in concluding:

> "Being cool is about trying to become who you were always meant to be, regardless of what people may say or think. Become like an Oak tree that just keeps growing bigger, regardless of whether it’s sunny, rainy, cloudy, or snowy. The tree doesn’t break, bend, or worry about the weather. The tree just keeps doing what it does because it knows it's destined to be a great tree. It gets there by growing bigger and stronger everyday and in the process, the tree becomes a source of shade for other creatures.”
