+++
title = 'New Years Eve Fireworks'
date = 2026-01-14T00:09:16-05:00
draft = false
+++
{{< video src="/blog/20260114_NYE_Fireworks/fireworks.mp4" type="video/mp4" preload="metadata" >}}

I celebrated New Years Eve 2025 by watching the fireworks at the Baltimore Inner Harbor. Traditionally I have never celebrated New Years Eve, but this was a nice change of pace. My friend invited me to see it and I’m glad that I went. Before the fireworks however, we went to a super expensive restaurant that I was not happy with, but that’s a story for another day. 

**<u>My Reflections on 2025</u>**: 2025 was a fantastic year for me overall, in spite of many challenges. It was a year where I grew tremendously. I’m most proud of the fact that I kept fighting and never gave up. It would have been so easy to quit, but I never stopped and I kept pressing forward despite multiple forces that were trying to take me down. But that’s ok and I welcome all situations. I may fail and I may not always make the right decisions, but I always bounce back and I always emerge stronger than ever before. I don’t quit, I don’t stop, and I just keep it moving.

**<u>My Mindset for 2026</u>**: Because of all the challenges and stressful situations that I had to overcome in 2025, 2026 is starting off kind of slow. I was sick multiple times in 2025, including during the year end holiday break that has extended into 2026 now. I’m not feeling amazing these days, but I know that I will recover both physically and mentally real soon. I’m going to be at my nominal physical and mental strength rather quickly. I can feel it and I’m looking forward to all that 2026 has to offer! I’m feeling very good about the year. I’ll overcome any challenges that arise, just like I did in 2025.
